TASK2 — COMMANDS:

asciinema rec basic-staging.cast

nano file.txt

1. initial file.txt contents 

echo 2 > file.txt

git diff

git diff --staged

Why is this blank? → git diff is blank because file.txt and its initial state was not added at all and git diff cannot reflect the changes between the working directory and its previous state; git diff --staged is blank because we have not added anything and therefore the difference between the working directory and the staged area cannot be reflected.

git add file.txt

git diff → tells us nothing because we have not changed the working directory compared to the new staging area

git diff --staged → shows the change to file.txt as it has arrived in the staging area (we have changed its contents to "2", replacing its previous contents through the ">" echo command in bash).

echo 3 > file.txt

git diff

git diff --staged  

Explain what is happening? → git diff shows us "-2 +3" because we have changed the file.txt state between the working area (3) and its previous staged-area state (2); git diff --staged shows us just "+2" because we have not added the newest change ("3") to the staged area.

git status → file.txt is present twice — as a new added file in the staging area and as a modified file in the working directory

git reset HEAD file.txt

git status → we have reset the head commit status to the current working-directory status ("3")

stage change with:
git add file.txt
 
make commit with:
git commit -m "contents — 3" 

git log → added a new commit (file.txt contains "3")

echo 4 > file.txt

nano file.txt

What is the content of file.txt? → "4"

git status
What does git status tell us? → we have 2 versions of file.txt again, one in the committed-repository area ("3", not shown) and one is unsaved (red) in the working directory ("4").

git checkout file.txt

nano file.txt

What is the content of file.txt? → "3", we have removed the working-directory version of file.txt ("4") and replaced it with the historic repository version ("3").

git status → we only have the staging-area version of file.txt

exit